Roadmap: 2023 Update (#343)
astropy/astropy-project: roadmap/roadmap.md

## Introduction

This Roadmap captures high level actionable items that we as a project aim to undertake to improve the health and stability of the Astropy project. The Roadmap itself is a static document, however it will be revisited regularly at the Astropy coordination meetings, to keep track of progress and write new versions as needed.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Learn and User Support

- :green_circle: Generate and ingest guides and/or a series of tutorials that demonstrate Astropy Project functionality in the context of astronomical research.

-  :large_orange_diamond: Update Astropy website: Rework the Team page and improve the visibility of Astropy Learn.

- :large_orange_diamond: Expand and build on workshop offerings by recruiting and training more facilitators and expanding the geographic diversity of meetings where we offer workshops. 

- :large_orange_diamond: Expand the number and diversity of active user support resources.

- :red_square: Develop tutorials that demonstrate the use of Astropy for spectroscopy tasks.

- :red_square: Develop/harvest tutorials suitable for use in university astronomy courses. 

## Community Building and Sustainability

- :large_orange_diamond: Increase the learning and mentoring opportunities for people interested in becoming contributors and helping to develop existing contributors.

- :large_orange_diamond: Better understand Astropy user community through a NumPy-like user survey (see [this summary](https://numpy.org/user-survey-2020-details/) of their results).

> - :red_square: Increase inclusion, diversity, and empowerment efforts within the Astropy Project and NumFOCUS communities, and improved our understanding the demographics of our communities in order to measure the effectiveness of these efforts.

Reviewer 2: and improve our understanding of the

Reviewer 3: "...and improve our understanding of the..."

Also need the extra "of" after understanding.

- Consensus of the community is that the item is a priority.
- Attempts to secure the necessary resources have not yet been started.
  - *For example, there’s no one available to write a funding proposal or lead recruitment efforts.*

## Functionality

- :large_orange_diamond: Provide next-generation spectroscopic reduction, analysis, and visualization tools usable by individual researchers and larger surveys.

> - :large_orange_diamond: Improve support and validation for input/output of standard file formats used in Astronomy by improving the unified i/o system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :large_orange_diamond: Improve support and validation for input/output of standard file formats used in Astronomy by improving the unified I/O system.
```

- :large_orange_diamond: Improve interoperability and compatibility, while reducing duplication, amongst Astropy-affiliated packages and other community standard software.

## Hardware and Performance

- :large_orange_diamond: Improve and/or maintain interoperability with performant I/O file formats and libraries such as HDF5 and Dask.

- :red_square: Improve support for using Astropy tools in heterogeneous computing environments such as cloud environments or GPU systems.

## Learn and User Support

- :green_circle: Generate and ingest guides and/or a series of tutorials that demonstrate Astropy Project functionality in the context of astronomical research.

> -  :large_orange_diamond:Update Astropy website: rework the Team page, and improve the visibility of Astropy Learn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  :large_orange_diamond: Update Astropy website: Rework the Team page and improve the visibility of Astropy Learn.
```

- :large_orange_diamond: Expand and build on workshop offerings by recruiting and training more facilitators and expanding the geographic diversity of meetings where we offer workshops. 

- :large_orange_diamond: Expand the number and diversity of active user support resources.

> - :red_square: Deveop tutorials that demonstrate the use of Astropy for spectroscopy tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :red_square: Develop tutorials that demonstrate the use of Astropy for spectroscopy tasks.
```

- :red_square: Develop/harvest tutorials suitable for use in university astronomy courses. 

## Community Building and Sustainability

- :large_orange_diamond: Increase the learning and mentoring opportunities for people interested in becoming contributors and helping to develop existing contributors.

- :large_orange_diamond: Better understand Astropy user community through a NumPy-like user survey (see [this summary](https://numpy.org/user-survey-2020-details/) of their results).

- :red_square: Increase inclusion, diversity, and empowerment efforts within the Astropy Project and NumFOCUS communities, and improved our understanding the demographics of our communities in order to measure the effectiveness of these efforts.

## Infrastructure, Documentation

- :green_circle: Implement integration testing for core, coordinated, and infrastructure packages.

- :large_orange_diamond: Improve documentation for infrastructure setup, as well as the developer documentation.

- :red_square: Implement robust performance benchmark reporting.

## Government, Management, and Personnel

> - :green_circle: Adopt the NumFOCUS Code of Conduct (CoC) and build a community ombuds/CoC team to curate the guidelines and do enforcement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :green_circle: Adopt the NumFOCUS Code of Conduct (CoC) and build a community ombuds/CoC team to curate the guidelines and enforce them.
```

> - :large_orange_diamond: Develop a process for recruiting, selecting, and managing personnel to complete Project priorities that require external personnel.

Reviewer: Not sure if "help" is a good replacement but "personnel" seems repetitive.
```suggestion
- :large_orange_diamond: Develop a process for recruiting, selecting, and managing personnel to complete Project priorities that require external help.
```

> - :red_square: Document the process for taking on a formal role in the Astropy project and recruit for unfilled maintainer positions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :red_square: Document the process for taking on a formal role in the Astropy project and recruit for unfilled Team positions.
```
